------------------------node modules installed -----------------------------

1. colors -> The colors module is used to style and color the NodeJS console.

2. dotenv -> This module is used to handle environment variables. It allows developers to store configuration information
            in a .env file and load those variables into the application's environment during runtime.

3. cors -> CORS stands for Cross-Origin Resource Sharing, and it allows a server to specify who can access its resources. It helps in handling cross-origin requests in a secure manner.

4. morgan -> this module is a middleware used for HTTP request logging in web applications. It provides a concise and 
            customizable way to log HTTP requests and responses, helping developers undersand and debug the behaviour
            of their application.


.role of .env file --> 

The .env file, short for "environment file," is a configuration file commonly used in software development. Its primary role is to store environment-specific configuration variables, such as API keys, database connection strings, or other sensitive information.

The code dotenv.config(); is typically used in Node.js applications with the dotenv library to load and parse the values from a .env file into environment variables.


const PORT = 8080 || process.env.PORT: This line assigns the value of 8080 to the PORT constant if process.env.PORT is not defined or evaluates to a falsy value. Otherwise, it assigns the value of process.env.PORT to the PORT constant. This allows flexibility in specifying the port number either through a hardcoded value (8080 in this case) or through an environment variable.


how does .env file helps to secure the software applicantion ?

The .env file helps to secure a software application by providing a mechanism to store and protect sensitive configuration information. Here are a few ways in which the .env file contributes to application security:

Protecting Sensitive Information: The .env file allows you to store sensitive information, such as API keys, database credentials, or other access tokens, outside of the application's source code. By keeping this information separate, you reduce the risk of accidentally exposing sensitive data, as the .env file is typically excluded from version control systems.

Limited Access: The .env file can be restricted to limited access. You can set appropriate file permissions or configure access controls to ensure that only authorized individuals or processes can access and modify the file. This reduces the risk of unauthorized access to sensitive configuration data.

Encryption and Obfuscation: The .env file can be encrypted or obfuscated to further enhance security. Encryption protects the contents of the file by encrypting the data within it. Obfuscation involves converting the contents into a format that is difficult for humans to interpret, providing an additional layer of security.

Version Control Exclusion: The .env file is typically added to the project's version control system's ignore list (e.g., .gitignore). This prevents the file from being inadvertently committed and pushed to public repositories, reducing the risk of exposing sensitive data.

Controlled Deployment: With the .env file, you can customize configuration values for different environments (e.g., development, staging, production). This ensures that sensitive information, such as database credentials or API keys, are only deployed and accessible in the appropriate environment, minimizing the exposure of sensitive data during development or testing.

Easy Configuration Updates: The .env file provides a convenient way to update configuration values without modifying the codebase. This flexibility allows you to change sensitive information, such as passwords or keys, without redeploying the entire application. It simplifies the process of rotating credentials or updating configurations in response to security vulnerabilities or policy changes.

While the .env file itself does not provide complete security, it plays a crucial role in securing the application by isolating sensitive information, restricting access, and enabling controlled deployment and configuration updates. It is important, however, to follow best practices in managing and securing the .env file itself, such as properly protecting file access and encryption keys and regularly reviewing and auditing its contents for any sensitive information.


const app = express(): This line creates an instance of the Express application. It initializes the server object that will handle HTTP requests and responses.

app.use(morgan('dev')): This line registers the Morgan middleware with the Express application. It configures Morgan to use the 'dev' format, which provides concise and colorful output for logging requests.

app.use(express.json()): This line registers the built-in Express middleware for parsing JSON. It allows the server to handle JSON-encoded data sent in the request body.

app.use(cors()): This line registers the CORS middleware with the Express application. It enables Cross-Origin Resource Sharing and allows requests from any origin.